Hey guys, welcome back.
Let's get our market intelligence on
and start finding some competitors.
We cannot carve our beautiful Greek statue of a woman with no arms (always no arms) unless we have a large stone.
Terrible metaphor?
Yeah, probably, but I think you know what I mean. We first need to channel all of our energy into building a
list of potential competitors,
and once we have that list, then we can start chipping, and carving, and making the critical decisions
that we need to make as a product manager.
Ok, let's get started.
And step one - you probably can't guess it -
actually step one for this is capture.
Now, what do I mean by capture?
Well, we need to set up some way of recording the competitors we find. Do that before you even start looking
for your first competitor. Whatever you use -
Evernote, Google Docs, a piece of paper,
you can even talk into Siri and have it record something for you -
you just need something set up. For those of you who want to follow along and do everything I do, open up a Google sheet.
That's what I'm going to use (or an Excel if you want to), I'm just going to fill column A with the competitors
we find. Why do I put them there? You'll find out later.
The first thing I'm going to do to this list is I'm going to divide it into two categories, known and unknown.
So first one is "known" and then I'm going to leave five spaces.
I will explain.
"Unknown."
Now, for the top category, you can put as many as you want, to be honest, and if you need more than five
spots, by all means, you can shift everything else down.
But do you know what I mean
for "known"? Well, if you're a product manager, presumably you work within a company, and the company is probably
prior established.
In that scenario, you're probably going to know who your biggest competitors are.
These are the people that you probably grumble about in your sleep and theoretically talk trash about
to your other employees.
These are the people that, when you're driving your car, you end up swerving because you get so angry
when you hear their commercial on the radio.
You should know these, so put these down.
This gives you a leg up.
Now, people out there who are doing this as an entrepreneur, you're not going to know this, so you're probably
not going to have a "known" category.
Now, if you are in a company and you don't know who your known competitors are,
number one, don't let your boss know,
and number two, try to figure this out as quickly as possible and don't let anyone know that you don't know this.
I'll give you a quick tip for finding this in roughly four seconds.
Second one and second two, go to Google.com.
Second three and second four, all I want you to do is type the name of your company and then the word "versus."
So, if I were using the company GoPro,
I would say "GoPro versus."
There you go.
Sony has essentially answered the question for me
or at least given me a head start. Right in the search
suggestions, Google tells me that GoPro competes with Sony and Canon, and if I were to search, I could find even more,
things like Xiaomi, and Contour, and etc. etc.
Great, you got it?
Now, put your known right there, however many there are,
and then the next section, that's where we're going to go out and start digging for the ones we might not be aware of.
These are the ones that are kind of hiding in the bushes.
And as we collect these, we're just going to
be typing these down and - like your therapist -
passing no judgment on them whatsoever.
We are just collecting them, known and unknown.
So how exactly do we search for unknown competitors?
Well, the way you do that is you focus on problems. Not your problems, crybaby, I'm talking about the problems
of your customers.
Now, you probably have figured this out already
up until the point in this course, because we've said this over and over and over again, all ideas, products, and
features, all stem from solving a problem for someone.
Even the most frivolous things out there still solve a problem
if you sit and think about them long enough.
So what you need to do is just stop, take the product or the feature that you are evaluating, and answer
the question "What problem does this solve?"
And then, when you figure that out,
answer the question "For whom?"
Now, a pro tip.
Don't put "my users" in the second section because that is how you get tunnel vision and you just end up making mistakes.
We need to get a lot more specific than that.
So let's do it with an example, and we'll use GoPro since they're one of my favorite punching bags.
What problem does a GoPro Hero Black 4 solve?
Well, the problem it solves is probably that people want to film action sequences, or film shots that
involve moving objects, cars, paragliders, parachuting, whatnot, and the traditional applications are just not suited for it.
You're not going to be carrying a large camcorder or a DSLR in these situations, you need something
with a different form factor. So, to put simply, it is hard to film action sequences with traditional cameras.
And "For whom?"
Well, mostly thrill seekers, specifically the ones that want to film it.
So I'd probably say thrill seekers and/or videographers.
Now, once you've identified the problem that it solves and for whom, you're basically halfway there.
Ok, now that we have a distilled version of what our product or feature does, we know who it's for and what problem it solves,
let's use three different techniques
with this information to find competitors.
Now, there are obviously tons and tons of ways that you can find competitors, but these are three easy
ways that will get you a very large amount of coverage.
Be very surprised if you had to use anything else.
Fortunately for you, it's easy. Just go to Google.com.
Google's the best search engine, they're the best at finding things online,
that's why we use them.
Now, strategy
number one - I want you to channel the type of user
you're building your feature or your product for.
This is a user that has the problem you've identified.
Now, that user probably complains about the problem.
How would they complain about the problem?
What specific wordings, or phrases, or context would they use when complaining about it online?
Try to channel your annoying sister for just a second and think about what have they been saying before
that you've seen, you've recorded, you've observed,
and is there any other way that they could articulate this or verbalize the problem that you can think of?
Take those and write them down.
If I was a thrill seeker that really needed a camera to stick to my head, I'd probably be complaining
along the lines of "DSLR too big for action shots" or something along the lines of "Keep breaking my
camera for" - insert the activity - you know, parachuting, or BMX biking, or skateboarding, or all the different
things that GoPro people use these for.
Try to write down as many as you can.
Once you have the variations down, take those variations
and start Googling them. What you'll find are
three different things.
One, companies that are using that verbiage.
Companies often do that, they take their customers or their
potential customers, see what they're complaining about, and they'll use the exact same language in their marketing message.
So, when you search for that exact wording,
you might find companies that are targeting them.
The second thing you'll find are individual people
complaining about it online. Now,
that itself is not particularly helpful, but when they're complaining about it, chances are there is a
conversation around it or resulting from it,
and then you can see how other people reacted to it.
And in most cases you'll find how other people solved the problem.
You can find potential competitors that way. "Can't find cameras small enough for my skateboarding videos."
"Oh man, that sucks, have you tried the Sony CyberShot?"
I'm not really into the cameras.
Number three is that you'll find what Google
seems to be related to that problem.
Google is very good at connecting the dots between what people search for and what they typically are
looking for or what web sites they're going to.
So you might serendipitously find competitors because Google made the connections for you. Now, as a pro tip,
I suggest using this tag in Google. It goes "site:" and then insert the name of a web site you want to search.
Now, what this does is it tells Google
to only search a specific web site.
Now, why would we use this in this technique? Well,
we're trying to channel customers saying something.
So we probably want to find individual people actually complaining about it and we want to find places
where they're probably discussing it.
So if you say "site:" then what you can do is you can insert some well-known sites in communities
where people often talk about this stuff.
So I'll just give you some of the hot ones, like Reddit.com is a fantastic way of finding consumer
conversations. Quora.com is another one.
Believe it or not, Yahoo Answers
is a decent resource for finding this stuff.
Look through the results, prune what you can find
out of it, and add it to your list.
Now, strategy number two. Strategy number two is to literally describe exactly what your product or feature
does - be like a robot and just literally describe it.
"Tiny camera fits to your head shoots video," "tiny camera designed for action," "compact camera you can attach
to your head that films" - things like that.
Now, what you'll get, again, are three different things.
One, you'll find companies that use
those literal descriptions of their features.
Now, they might not use the marketing verbiage or the complaint verbiage that we had in the last strategy
but they might use some of the feature descriptions, very literal, "it does this," and that's a great way
of picking up competitors you otherwise wouldn't find.
Now, the second thing you're going to find is at the top of your search list there's going to be ads
and those ads are essentially companies who have self-selected themselves to pitch to you because they
think that that function you're searching for
is related to their product.
Those people are paying to be there,
therefore, probably a good chance they could compete with you. And then, number three, what Google, again, thinks about it.
Very, very helpful.
Now, pro tip for this strategy.
One thing I would suggest doing is
play around with quotation marks.
Now, when you put quotation marks around
what you're searching, that is a hard search.
So when you do a hard search, Google only looks for
exact matches of whatever is in the quotations.
The reason why you might want to do that is because if I said "camera that mounts on your head," I don't
want that to match up with something that says, you know, "mount a camera on your head" like a suggestion
or "mount a horse and use a camera."
Things like that.
Those are a little bit too off the mark.
And then the last one is try to search for how you in your head would pitch this product or feature.
If I was pitching the GoPro, maybe I might call it
World's Smallest 4K camera.
That's a one sentence pitch.
Try to think of some one sentence pitches that describe what it is that you're working on and try entering that.
Try as much as you can to be specific when you use this strategy.
Don't just say "this app saves you time" -
a lot of things out there save you time.
This isn't going to help you if you're that vague.
If your app saves you time by saving your voice notes to Evernote, well, then search for it like a pitch
on that, like "save time by recording your voice," "save time on the go by using your voice," "write to do lists
with your voice," "save time on the go by just speaking."
Things like that.
Ok, got it? Those are three different techniques.
Figure out the problem you solve, who you solve it for,
and then use those three different strategies to drum up
a list of competitors that you think might be worth analyzing.
Throw those in the list, and I'll see you in the next lecture.